.TH QGIS-SCHEDULERD 1
.SH NAME
qgis-schedulerd \- schedule the fcgi requests for the QGis server to
prepared QGis server daemons
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qgis-schedulerd
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIGFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qgis-schedulerd
This daemon sits in between the web server and the QGis server daemon.
It recognizes the qgis config from the web client request and schedules the
request to a corresponding qgis server daemon. The qgis server daemon only
computes answers to those requests cutting down the time to reply to
milliseconds.
In addition the qgis server daemon gets fed a simulated request, so the
first access to a project does not need the full time to compute the
request.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h
print this help.
.TP
.BR \-V
print version.
.TP
.BR \-d
do NOT become daemon.
.TP
.BR \-c
use CONFIGFILE (default: 
.I /etc/qgis-scheduler/qgis-scheduler.conf
)
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.BR SIGHUP
Cause the deamon process to close and reopen the log file, 
and reload all config files. 
Projekts which have been removed from the config files will be shut down 
(i.e. the corresponding qgis daemon will end), 
projekts which have been created in the config files get started.
.TP
.BR SIGUSR1
Cause the daemon process to write statistics to the log file.
.TP
.BR SIGUSR2
Cause the daemon process to write the internal database to the log file.
.SH BUGS
Probably many. This is software, you know..
.SH AUTHOR
Jörg Habenicht <jh@mwerk.net>, Jörg Habenicht <j.habenicht@gmx.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR qgis (1)
.BR qgis-scheduler.conf (5)
