.TH QGIS-SCHEDULER.CONF 5
.SH NAME
qgis-scheduler.conf \- configuration file for the qgis-schedulerd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This describes the syntax of the configuration file for the
qgis-schedulerd. \
The syntax is like this:
.LP
globalvariable=value
.br
[projectname1]
.br
projectvariable=value
.br
[projectname2]
.br
projectvariable=value
.br
[projectname3]
.br
projectvariable=value
.LP
Some variables are only glocal options (like "port", "listen") and not
recognized in the project sections. \
All other variables can be specified in the global and project section. \
The data specified in the project section superseeds the data in the global
section.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR listen
set \'*' to accept all incoming connections,
set \'localhost' to accept connections from localhost only.
.br
default: '*'
.br
global option only
.TP
.BR port
The network port to listen to.
.br
default: 10177
.br
global option only
.TP
.BR chuser
Drop root priviledges and change user id to this user.
.br
default: '' (keep current user)
.br
global option only
.TP
.BR chroot
Change root to the given path. 
.br
Note: This is useless without additional setting "chuser" and generates a
warning.
.br
default: '' (keep current root setting)
.br
global option only
.TP
.BR pidfile
Path to the file where the pid of the daemon is written to.
.br
default: '' (no file)
.br
global option only
.TP
.BR process
The binary to start to fulfill the fcgi request. \
If the setting is left empty the scheduler writes an error to the log.
.br
default: '' (none)
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR process_args
Further arguments to the process. 
.br
Note: Currently not implemented.
.br
default: '' (none)
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR min_proc
Minimal number of idle cgi proccess. More processes need more memory and
more file descriptors. And more processes can handle more connections in
parallel.
.br
Note: The scheduler will start more cgi processes 
if web clients are waiting for a connection. \
So the min_proc is the initial number of processes which may increase during
the run.
.br
default: 1
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR max_proc
Maximum number of processes to keep in memory. If more processes have been
started the extended number will be killed if the processes get to the idle
state.
.br
Note: Currently not implemented.
.br
default: 20
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR proc_read_timeout
Timeout value in seconds. If the scheduler waites more than proc_read_timeout
seconds for an answer from the cgi process the process is considered hanging
and need to be killed and started anew.
.br
default: 270 (seconds)
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR proc_term_timeout
Timeout value in seconds. If the cgis process has not ended within
proc_term_timeout seconds after sending
SIGTERM the process gets a SIGKILL signal.
.br
default: 10 (seconds)
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR scan_param ", " scan_regex
These parameters describe the filter to recognise which  project this
request belongs to. The example goes like this:
.br
[map]
.br
scan_param=QUERY_STRING
.br
scan_regex='map=.*card\.qgs'
.br
Here we scan for the fcgi parameter 'QUERY_STRING'. In this parameter we
expect the data described by the regular expression 'map=.*card\.qgs'. If
it matches then we know the request belongs to project 'map'.
.br
default: '' (none)
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR cwd
Set the working directory for the cgi process.
.br
default: '/'
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR config_file
Set the configuration file of the cgi process. If the configuration file
changes the cgi processes will be killed and restarted. The number of started
processes equal the number of currently running and idle processes for this
project.
.br
Note: This is special to the qgis fcgi service.
.br
default: '' (none)
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR initkey ", " initvalue
Specify fcgi variables to initialize the qgis program. This
setting causes the qgis service to load, preprocess and cache data  for
the map. If no init values have been specified 
the first map request could last longer than normal. The
initialization keys and values are numbered like this:
.br
initkey1=key
.br
initvalue1=value
.br
initkey2=key
.br
initvalue2=value
.br
[...]
.br
default: ''
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR envkey ", " envvalue
Specify additional environment settings for the fcgi process. The
environment keys and values are numbered like this:
.br
envkey1=key
.br
envvalue1=value
.br
envkey2=key
.br
envvalue2=value
.br
[...]
.br
default: ''
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR logfile
Where to write the logging information. \
If the scheduler gets signal SIGHUP the log file is closed and reopened. \
Use this to archive the current log file and write a new one.
.br
default: '' (none, write to stdout)
.br
global option only
.TP
.BR debuglevel
Set to 1 to print out aditional debug information to the log output channel.
.br
Note: This raises the amount of data logged significantly.
.br
default: 0
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR include
Include more config files. With this setting one can split up the config
file into multiple project configurations. \
The include statement is evaluated only  at the first level.
.br
default: '' (none)
.br
global and project option
.TP
.BR abort_on_error
This is a debug option. If set to 1 the program will core dump in case of an
error. \
Otherwise exit with error code -1.
.br
default: 0 (exit with -1)
.br
global option only
.SH EXAMPLE
This is an example for a service running in Ubuntu. \
The log directory needs to have write proviledges for user 'nobody'. \
Please note that the man page causes line breaks. There are
no line breaks in the data for the variable definition.
.LP
chuser=nobody
.br
logfile=/var/log/qgis-scheduler/qgis-scheduler.log
.br
pidfile=/var/run/qgis-scheduler.pid
.br
process=/usr/bin/qgis_mapserv.fcgi
.br
# QGis expects its WMS file in the working directory
.br
cwd=/usr/lib/cgi-bin
.LP
envkey0=LC_ALL
.br
envvalue0="en_US.UTF-8"
.br
envkey1=LANG
.br
envvalue1="en_US.UTF-8"
.br
# let QGis write log messages
.br
envkey2=QGIS_DEBUG
.br
envvalue2=1
.br
envkey3=QGIS_SERVER_LOG_FILE
.br
envvalue3=/var/log/qgis-scheduler/qgis-server.log
.br
envkey4=QGIS_SERVER_LOG_LEVEL
.br
envvalue4=0
.br
envkey5=PYTHONIOENCODING
.br
envvalue5=UTF-8
.LP
initkey0=QUERY_STRING
.br
initkey1=REQUEST_URI
.br
initkey2=SCRIPT_NAME
.br
initvalue2=/qgis_mapserv.fcgi
.br
initkey3=SERVER_NAME
.br
initvalue3=localhost
.br
initkey4=SERVER_PORT
.br
initvalue4=80
.LP
scan_param=QUERY_STRING
.LP
[mapA]
.br
# This card is used frequently
.br
min_proc=5
.br
initvalue0=map=/path/to/myconfigA.qgs&SERVICE=WMS&VERSION=1.3&REQUEST=GetProjectSettings
.br
initvalue1=/qgis_mapserv.fcgi?map=/path/to/myconfigB.qgs&SERVICE=WMS&VERSION=1.3&REQUEST=GetProjectSettings
.br
scan_regex='map=.*cardA\.qgs'
.LP
[mapB]
.br
initvalue0=map=/path/to/myconfigB.qgs&SERVICE=WMS&VERSION=1.3&REQUEST=GetProjectSettings
.br
initvalue1=/qgis_mapserv.fcgi?map=/path/to/myconfigB.qgs&SERVICE=WMS&VERSION=1.3&REQUEST=GetProjectSettings
.br
scan_regex='map=.*cardB\.qgs'
.SH AUTHOR
Jörg Habenicht <jh@mwerk.net>, Jörg Habenicht <j.habenicht@gmx.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR qgis (1),
.BR qgis-schedulerd (1)
